---
layout: post
title: "Mistborn taught me more about Trust than anything will"
date: 2022-07-10 23:30 +530
permalink: mistborn
---
Long before I started reading Mr Sanderson's books, I felt excited about reading Mr Sanderson's books. As I got sucked into Mistborn's universe, the line between reality and Luthadel blurred. Mr Sanderson must be appreciated for holding the reader's attention for extended periods.

Then suddenly in The Well Of Ascension, it hit me that the relationship between all of the Kelsier Crew along with Elend was built with trust. Even though the Trust factor was emphasised in The Final Empire (Vin kept referencing Trust being the differentiating factor that drew her towards Kelsier's crew and the Job). But in part 2 the whole Trust thing gets elevated to the next level when Sazed advises Vin on how to approach their relationship(Vin was in great turmoil then, remember that she was not sure of herself, Zane distracting her, feeling unworthy of Elend). Sazed tells her that to love Elend means to trust him, no matter what. The decision to trust Elend pays off in The Hero of Ages, as Elend realises the same and relies on Vin to take down Ruin.

When Vin starts to trust people around her and gets to terms with her environment, she goes into this Nirvana state when her character is freed from the apprehensiveness. Although this might be a little-to-none revelation to some, it has been a major one for me. Lately, I have been employing Trust in my day-to-day activities, which has put me into a better state of mind.

Fiction is much more than coming up with plots, it's about the power given by the writer to the reader through which they conjure up the characters while reading the book. And producing this power is no mean feat and involves building up characters as complex as Vin.
